HTTP protocol was originlly designed for transmitting hypertext.

Modern equivalent of hypertext is html

HTTP transmits html, css, api responces, javascript and quite a few other things.

PUT, POST, DELETE, GET

Get request recieves a response:

ie: 200 OK HTTP/1.1

Content-length: 424

GET -Retrieve a resource
Post: send a resource
Put: update resource
Delete: delete a resource

GET / <uri name>  HTTP/ 1.1

URN has a Host + uri
URL has a Protocol + Host + uri

Request format:

Request line (get-request)

Header:
Host:
User0Agent:

query=new+jordans&color=red

Request Headers provide additional contetxt about the request.

Host tells the web server which domain the client is requesting content from. Often one web server will serve content for multiple domains, sometimes called virtual hosts. The server uses this header to determine which content to serve.

Accept-language: en::::The client lets the server know which languages it prefers the response be sent back in.

User-Agent:  which type of client sent this request. Sometimes the server will respond differently based on the UA field.

Accept: text/html, text/plain:  Is this client recieving html or json?


Responses also have headers:  Length, date, content-type

Status codes:

200: OK
302: See other --endpoint doesn't exist. Go here instead <!>
400: bad request  --client problem
401: unauthorized
404: not found
500: internal server error --server problem

When a user is browsing a typical website, ther will be hundreds or dozens of http conversations.

check network tab to check if you think you are talking to your server, but you aren't

HTTP is stateless.  Every conversation shares no state with any previous conversation.

Evey http conversation begins with a new connection from the client ot he server. It's as if the two parties are meeting for the first time. Even requests just modments before have no bearing on the current request.

Server State:

Most servers clear all state variables with each request. this means all state when processing a request comes from the request itself.

STATELESS??

HTTP cookes help retain state like "who isl ogged in" or "what was their last search" accross multiple requests.  

This is how cookies are implemented:
Server requests authentication
Client provides token
Data is served

HTTP is everywhere!!!!!!!!

WHAT IS API?  Application Program Interface::

A way to set up communication between server and client.

Client goes to restaurant.
Table is computer:
Cooks are in the back making food. this is the server:
Fridge is the database:

cooking it is formatting the data:

server brings it through the API.
API is the waiter.




